---
layout: post
title:  "Totally Playing Games for Scientific Reasons"
date: 2024-11-06
description:  jkj  
image: "/assets/img/cool_banner_2.webp"
display_image: false  # change this to true to display the image below the banner 
---
<p class="intro"><span class="dropcap">S</span>o </p>

## Intro



## Motivating Q
I wouldn't consider myself a Gamer (derogatory), but I do love playing video games. My Nintendo Switch and I have spent quite a bit of time together. When I was looking for datasets to collect, I came across the Moby Video Games website and thought 'why not?'. I was curious to see what attributes give games higher ratings than others; i.e. does the type of genre or interface make a difference? Were there more popular games released in a particular year? What impact did COVID-19 have on games (if any)? 


## Ethical
Before you ask - yes, I did check the robots.txt file. It allowed me to access all the content I needed. Since I didn't extract any names or personal info, I figured it'd be alright to share my data on the GitHub repository. If you happen to be the esteemed Moby of Moby Games and would like me to terminate my repo, email me `:)`. 


## Summary of steps
Grabbing the first part of the data was easy, especially since it was a table - just same basic BeautifulSoup coding and I had it. But the second part was a pain in the butt. It was technically a grid object, but the find functions could not fulfill their one purpose in life. `<dd>` and `<dl>` tags don't like cooperating, apparently. So ChatGPT and I talked over dinner, and breakfast, and lunch... literally for hours to figure out how to extract that data I wanted. Once we figured that out, we had to do something even worse - clean the data. Honestly, it was a nightmare. Luckily for you, if you're interested in scraping a similar website, you have code now. Congrats. 


## Summary stats
Unfortunately, my dataset is only games from the Nintendo Switch, and I couldn't exactly grab 11,774 games on the list before Moby drop-kicked me out of their servers. I ended up with 550 games and collected 10 features for each of them (exluding the title). 




## Links
Github, website

[Moby Games!](https://www.mobygames.com/platform/switch/)